README.md, before:

# Hytale Dedicated Server - Docker

Docker image for Hytale dedicated server with web panel, auto-download, and JWT authentication.

![Panel Preview](docs/images/panel.png)

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create folder
mkdir hytale && cd hytale

# 2. Download files
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ketbome/hytale-server/main/docker-compose.yml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ketbome/hytale-server/main/.env.example

# 3. Configure
cp .env.example .env
nano .env  # Change PANEL_USER and PANEL_PASS!

# 4. Start
docker compose up -d

# 5. Open panel
# http://localhost:3000
```

## Authentication

The panel requires login. Default credentials:
- **User**: `admin`
- **Pass**: `admin`

⚠️ **Change these in your `.env` file before deploying!**

```env
PANEL_USER=your_username
PANEL_PASS=your_secure_password
```

## Configuration

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and edit:

```env
# Server
JAVA_XMS=4G
JAVA_XMX=8G
BIND_PORT=5520

# Panel Auth
PANEL_USER=admin
PANEL_PASS=admin
JWT_SECRET=optional-random-string

# Timezone (for correct log timestamps)
TZ=America/New_York
```

### All Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `TZ` | `UTC` | Timezone for logs ([list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)) |
| `JAVA_XMS` | `4G` | Minimum RAM |
| `JAVA_XMX` | `8G` | Maximum RAM |
| `BIND_PORT` | `5520` | Game UDP port |
| `AUTO_DOWNLOAD` | `true` | Auto-download game (x64 only) |
| `SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS` | - | Extra server args (e.g. `--mods mods`) |
| `PANEL_USER` | `admin` | Panel username |
| `PANEL_PASS` | `admin` | Panel password |
| `PANEL_PORT` | `3000` | Panel HTTP port |

### RAM Guide

| Players | JAVA_XMX |
|---------|----------|
| 1-10 | 4G |
| 10-20 | 6G |
| 20-50 | 8G |
| 50+ | 12G+ |

## Web Panel Features

- 📜 Real-time console logs
- ⌨️ Send server commands
- 🔐 JWT authentication
- 📁 File manager (upload, edit, delete)
- 🌍 Multi-language (EN/ES/UK)
- 📊 Server status & uptime
- 🔧 Mod manager with Modtale integration

## Development Mode

For local development with hot-reload:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ketbome/hytale-server.git
cd hytale-server

# Start dev environment with Docker
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build

# Open panel: http://localhost:5173
```

### Development on Apple Silicon (ARM64)

The `hytale-downloader` binary is x64 only. On ARM64 Macs, you have two options:

**Option 1: Build with x64 emulation** (slower but downloader works):
```bash
DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/amd64 docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml build
DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/amd64 docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up
```

**Option 2: Download files manually** (faster, native ARM64):
```bash
# Download HytaleServer.jar and Assets.zip from hytale.com
# Place them in ./server/ folder
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
```

The dev mode features:
- **Hot Module Replacement (HMR)** for Svelte frontend
- **Live reload** for backend changes
- **Volume mounts** for instant code updates
- **pnpm** for fast package management

### Frontend Stack
- **Svelte 5** with TypeScript
- **Vite 6** for bundling
- **Biome** for linting/formatting
- **Knip** for dead code detection

### Local Development (without Docker)

```bash
cd panel

# Install dependencies
cd backend && pnpm install && cd ..
cd frontend && pnpm install && cd ..

# Start dev servers
pnpm dev
```

### Project Structure

```
panel/
├── backend/           # Express + Socket.IO + TypeScript
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/    # Configuration
│   │   ├── middleware/# JWT auth middleware
│   │   ├── routes/    # API routes
│   │   ├── services/  # Docker, files, mods, modtale
│   │   └── socket/    # Socket.IO handlers
│   └── __tests__/     # Jest tests
├── frontend/          # Svelte 5 + Vite + TypeScript
│   └── src/
│       └── lib/
│           ├── components/  # UI components
│           ├── stores/      # Svelte stores
│           ├── services/    # API & Socket client
│           └── i18n/        # Translations
├── tsconfig.base.json # Shared TypeScript config
└── biome.json         # Shared Biome config
```

## Manual Download

If auto-download fails (or on ARM64), get files from https://hytale.com and place in `./server/`:
- `HytaleServer.jar`
- `Assets.zip`

## ARM64 (Apple Silicon, Raspberry Pi, etc.)

The auto-downloader is **not available on ARM64** (binary is x64 only). You must download files manually:

```bash
# 1. Download from https://hytale.com on another machine
# 2. Copy to your ARM64 server
scp HytaleServer.jar Assets.zip user@arm-server:~/hytale/server/
```

The server itself (Java) runs natively on ARM64.

## Mods

Place mods in `./server/mods/` folder. Use `SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS` to configure:

```env
# .env
SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS=--mods mods
```

Or mount a custom mods folder in `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./server:/opt/hytale
  - ./my-mods:/opt/hytale/mods
```

## Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker compose logs -f

# Stop
docker compose down

# Update
docker compose pull && docker compose up -d

# Backup
docker compose stop
tar -czvf backup.tar.gz server/
docker compose start
```

## Firewall

```bash
# Linux
ufw allow 5520/udp

# Windows
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Hytale" -Direction Inbound -Protocol UDP -LocalPort 5520 -Action Allow
```

## Ports

| Service | Port |
|---------|------|
| Game | 5520/UDP |
| Panel | 3000/TCP |

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Contributors

Thanks to everyone who has helped improve this project:

- **[@Vadko](https://github.com/Vadko)** - Frontend refactoring and mods system

## License

**Free for personal and non-commercial use.**

Commercial use by companies with >$100k revenue requires permission. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

---

*This project is not affiliated with Hypixel Studios or Hytale.*

Commit message:

docs: add data persistence and backup recommendations to README.md

README.md, after:

# Hytale Dedicated Server - Docker

Docker image for Hytale dedicated server with web panel, auto-download, and JWT authentication.

![Panel Preview](docs/images/panel.png)

## Quick Start

```bash
# 1. Create folder
mkdir hytale && cd hytale

# 2. Download files
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ketbome/hytale-server/main/docker-compose.yml
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ketbome/hytale-server/main/.env.example

# 3. Configure
cp .env.example .env
nano .env  # Change PANEL_USER and PANEL_PASS!

# 4. Start
docker compose up -d

# 5. Open panel
# http://localhost:3000
```

## Data Persistence

> ⚠️ **IMPORTANT: Your world data will be LOST if you don't use volume mounts!**

The `docker-compose.yml` maps `./server` to `/opt/hytale` inside the container. This is where all your server data lives:
- World files (`universe/`)
- Server configuration
- Mods and logs

**If you run the container without this volume mount, all data is stored inside the container and will be deleted when the container is removed.**

```yaml
# This line in docker-compose.yml saves your data:
volumes:
  - ./server:/opt/hytale  # ← Your data is saved in ./server/
```

### Backup Recommendation

Always backup your `./server` folder before updates or changes:
```bash
tar -czvf backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz server/
```

## Authentication

The panel requires login. Default credentials:
- **User**: `admin`
- **Pass**: `admin`

⚠️ **Change these in your `.env` file before deploying!**

```env
PANEL_USER=your_username
PANEL_PASS=your_secure_password
```

## Configuration

Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and edit:

```env
# Server
JAVA_XMS=4G
JAVA_XMX=8G
BIND_PORT=5520

# Panel Auth
PANEL_USER=admin
PANEL_PASS=admin
JWT_SECRET=optional-random-string

# Timezone (for correct log timestamps)
TZ=America/New_York
```

### All Variables

| Variable | Default | Description |
|----------|---------|-------------|
| `TZ` | `UTC` | Timezone for logs ([list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones)) |
| `JAVA_XMS` | `4G` | Minimum RAM |
| `JAVA_XMX` | `8G` | Maximum RAM |
| `BIND_PORT` | `5520` | Game UDP port |
| `AUTO_DOWNLOAD` | `true` | Auto-download game (x64 only) |
| `SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS` | - | Extra server args (e.g. `--mods mods`) |
| `PANEL_USER` | `admin` | Panel username |
| `PANEL_PASS` | `admin` | Panel password |
| `PANEL_PORT` | `3000` | Panel HTTP port |

### RAM Guide

| Players | JAVA_XMX |
|---------|----------|
| 1-10 | 4G |
| 10-20 | 6G |
| 20-50 | 8G |
| 50+ | 12G+ |

## Web Panel Features

- 📜 Real-time console logs
- ⌨️ Send server commands
- 🔐 JWT authentication
- 📁 File manager (upload, edit, delete)
- 🌍 Multi-language (EN/ES/UK)
- 📊 Server status & uptime
- 🔧 Mod manager with Modtale integration

## Development Mode

For local development with hot-reload:

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ketbome/hytale-server.git
cd hytale-server

# Start dev environment with Docker
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build

# Open panel: http://localhost:5173
```

### Development on Apple Silicon (ARM64)

The `hytale-downloader` binary is x64 only. On ARM64 Macs, you have two options:

**Option 1: Build with x64 emulation** (slower but downloader works):
```bash
DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/amd64 docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml build
DOCKER_DEFAULT_PLATFORM=linux/amd64 docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up
```

**Option 2: Download files manually** (faster, native ARM64):
```bash
# Download HytaleServer.jar and Assets.zip from hytale.com
# Place them in ./server/ folder
docker compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
```

The dev mode features:
- **Hot Module Replacement (HMR)** for Svelte frontend
- **Live reload** for backend changes
- **Volume mounts** for instant code updates
- **pnpm** for fast package management

### Frontend Stack
- **Svelte 5** with TypeScript
- **Vite 6** for bundling
- **Biome** for linting/formatting
- **Knip** for dead code detection

### Local Development (without Docker)

```bash
cd panel

# Install dependencies
cd backend && pnpm install && cd ..
cd frontend && pnpm install && cd ..

# Start dev servers
pnpm dev
```

### Project Structure

```
panel/
├── backend/           # Express + Socket.IO + TypeScript
│   ├── src/
│   │   ├── config/    # Configuration
│   │   ├── middleware/# JWT auth middleware
│   │   ├── routes/    # API routes
│   │   ├── services/  # Docker, files, mods, modtale
│   │   └── socket/    # Socket.IO handlers
│   └── __tests__/     # Jest tests
├── frontend/          # Svelte 5 + Vite + TypeScript
│   └── src/
│       └── lib/
│           ├── components/  # UI components
│           ├── stores/      # Svelte stores
│           ├── services/    # API & Socket client
│           └── i18n/        # Translations
├── tsconfig.base.json # Shared TypeScript config
└── biome.json         # Shared Biome config
```

## Manual Download

If auto-download fails (or on ARM64), get files from https://hytale.com and place in `./server/`:
- `HytaleServer.jar`
- `Assets.zip`

## ARM64 (Apple Silicon, Raspberry Pi, etc.)

The auto-downloader is **not available on ARM64** (binary is x64 only). You must download files manually:

```bash
# 1. Download from https://hytale.com on another machine
# 2. Copy to your ARM64 server
scp HytaleServer.jar Assets.zip user@arm-server:~/hytale/server/
```

The server itself (Java) runs natively on ARM64.

## Mods

Place mods in `./server/mods/` folder. Use `SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS` to configure:

```env
# .env
SERVER_EXTRA_ARGS=--mods mods
```

Or mount a custom mods folder in `docker-compose.yml`:

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./server:/opt/hytale
  - ./my-mods:/opt/hytale/mods
```

## Commands

```bash
# View logs
docker compose logs -f

# Stop
docker compose down

# Update
docker compose pull && docker compose up -d

# Backup
docker compose stop
tar -czvf backup.tar.gz server/
docker compose start
```

## Firewall

```bash
# Linux
ufw allow 5520/udp

# Windows
New-NetFirewallRule -DisplayName "Hytale" -Direction Inbound -Protocol UDP -LocalPort 5520 -Action Allow
```

## Ports

| Service | Port |
|---------|------|
| Game | 5520/UDP |
| Panel | 3000/TCP |

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Contributors

Thanks to everyone who has helped improve this project:

- **[@Vadko](https://github.com/Vadko)** - Frontend refactoring and mods system

## License

**Free for personal and non-commercial use.**

Commercial use by companies with >$100k revenue requires permission. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

---

*This project is not affiliated with Hypixel Studios or Hytale.*
